README.md, before:

# smoothie's Devbox

Yet another Ansible playbook for local development environment automation.

## Development Status

> :warning: **This project is currently in development and is not yet production-ready.** It is a
> work in progress, and there may be incomplete features or known issues. Use it at your own risk.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Description](#project-description)
- [Development Status](#development-status)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Project Description

As a developer, I enjoy a smooth local development environment. That's why I'm currently exploring
this devbox.

## Features

- **Custom System Dependencies:** Automatic setup of essential development tools
    - HTTP
        - [x] apache2
        - [ ] nginx
        - [ ] with SSL support
    - Code
        - [x] PHP (5.6 - 8.3)
            - [x] XDebug support
            - [x] Composer
        - [x] JavaScript
            - [x] Node.js (via nvm)
            - [ ] Deno (via dvm)
            - [x] npm (via nvm)
            - [ ] yarn
        - [x] Go
        - [x] Java
            - [ ] Gradle
            - [ ] Ivy
            - [ ] Maven
        - [ ] Python
    - Database
        - [x] MySQL
        - [x] MariaDB
        - [ ] PostgreSQL
        - [ ] SQLite
        - [ ] CouchDB
        - [ ] MongoDB
        - [x] Redis
        - [x] Memcached
        - [ ] InfluxDB
    - Messaging
        - [ ] Kafka
        - [ ] RabbitMQ
        - [ ] Gearman
    - ELK-Stack
        - [ ] Elasticsearch
        - [ ] Logstash
        - [ ] Kibana
        - [ ] Beats
    - Virtualization
        - [x] containerd
        - [x] Docker
        - [x] Kubernetes
          - [x] via k0s
          - [ ] via k3s
          - [ ] via kind
          - [ ] via kubeadm
          - [ ] via minikube
          - [ ] Podman
          - [x] Helm
    - Others
        - [ ] Apache Solr
        - [ ] Blackfire
        - [x] Git
        - [ ] Grafana
        - [ ] Meilisearch
        - [ ] Minio
        - [ ] Prometheus

### TODO

- [ ] Support self-signed apache2 vhosts
- [ ] Fix apache2, php, user permissions
    - Context: Currently we rewrite apache, php user to vagrant:vagrant.  
      This is considered a bad practice, that's why we should do something else (TBD).

## Installation

TBD

## Usage

TBD

## Contributing

Contributions are one thing that make the open source community such an amazing place to learn,
inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are greatly appreciated.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull
request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement". Don't forget to give the
project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature)
3. Commit your Changes (git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature')
4. Push to the Branch (git push origin feature/AmazingFeature)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

feat(k0s): Add support for persistence storage via CSI
In default configurations of k0s, persistence storage is disabled. k0s comes
with an implementation for container storage interfaces and OpenESB is set as
the default for that purpose.

With this commit, we can now enable or disable persistent storages and switch
to different CSI implementations (e.g. Minio) when wanted.

feat(k0s): Add k0sctl

feat(k0s): Fallback to stable k0s_version when not defined

README.md, after:

# smoothie's Devbox

Yet another Ansible playbook for local development environment automation.

## Development Status

> :warning: **This project is currently in development and is not yet production-ready.** It is a
> work in progress, and there may be incomplete features or known issues. Use it at your own risk.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Description](#project-description)
- [Development Status](#development-status)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Project Description

As a developer, I enjoy a smooth local development environment. That's why I'm currently exploring
this devbox.

## Features

- **Custom System Dependencies:** Automatic setup of essential development tools
    - HTTP
        - [x] apache2
        - [ ] nginx
        - [ ] with SSL support
    - Code
        - [x] PHP (5.6 - 8.3)
            - [x] XDebug support
            - [x] Composer
        - [x] JavaScript
            - [x] Node.js (via nvm)
            - [ ] Deno (via dvm)
            - [x] npm (via nvm)
            - [ ] yarn
        - [x] Go
        - [x] Java
            - [ ] Gradle
            - [ ] Ivy
            - [ ] Maven
        - [ ] Python
    - Database
        - [x] MySQL
        - [x] MariaDB
        - [ ] PostgreSQL
        - [ ] SQLite
        - [ ] CouchDB
        - [ ] MongoDB
        - [x] Redis
        - [x] Memcached
        - [ ] InfluxDB
    - Messaging
        - [ ] Kafka
        - [ ] RabbitMQ
        - [ ] Gearman
    - ELK-Stack
        - [ ] Elasticsearch
        - [ ] Logstash
        - [ ] Kibana
        - [ ] Beats
    - Virtualization
        - [x] containerd
        - [x] Docker
        - [x] Kubernetes
          - [x] via k0s
            - [x] optional k0sctl
            - [x] Storage via CSI (e.g. OpenEBS)
          - [ ] via k3s
          - [ ] via kind
          - [ ] via kubeadm
          - [ ] via minikube
          - [ ] Podman
          - [x] Helm
    - Others
        - [ ] Apache Solr
        - [ ] Blackfire
        - [x] Git
        - [ ] Grafana
        - [ ] Meilisearch
        - [ ] Minio
        - [ ] Prometheus

### TODO

- [ ] Consider (ADR) splitting groups into devmachine, devcontroller:
  - The machine would be the current webserver stuff (virtual machine managed via vagrant).
  - The controller would be the host. So stuff like PHPStorm, browsers and so could be installed.
- [ ] k0s: Update kubectl auth when installing k0s
- [ ] bash completions: Add a role which lets us add bash completions and computes enabled CLI's into that one. 
- [ ] Support self-signed apache2 vhosts
- [ ] Fix apache2, php, user permissions
    - Context: Currently we rewrite apache, php user to vagrant:vagrant.  
      This is considered a bad practice, that's why we should do something else (TBD).

## Installation

TBD

## Usage

TBD

## Contributing

Contributions are one thing that make the open source community such an amazing place to learn,
inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are greatly appreciated.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull
request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature)
3. Commit your Changes (git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature')
4. Push to the Branch (git push origin feature/AmazingFeature)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE file for details.
